The Stark Truth of How to Get Rich (working title)


Ch1
calls,- Just Starting Out 
  Want to get rich quickly
  Want to feel like making progress
  Want to be comfortable with choices
  want to know what future will be like

temptations, -Price of Playing
  Listening to salespeople
  overskeptical expertise
  Uncomfortable with anything except turnkey
  unwilling to lose in short term
  unwilling to examine/test assumptions
  freezing/postponing until turnkey
  overreaching

attitude, -Education
  Learning Expenses
  Stay small
  Expect 100% failure, aim for value regardless of success
  question everything, do it anyway to see whether they were correct questions, expect 100% failure
  understand thresholds
  be willing to work at it
  be willing to give it time


technical augments, -Basic Infrastructure
  new bank account for purpose- checks only, 
  email knowledgeable friends
  attend free meetings, find paid meetings and read about speakers- can usually find tool for sale without being sold on it, good way to avoid being upsold.
  Never accept upsale- basic models only. Be ready to dispute every charge and still lose money.
  start making question checklists and modify liberally
  

paths -all of em.
  I'm Rich! Capital Gains- Big Bank Account
  I'm Wealthy. Passive Income- Building a Legacy
  I'm the CEO of the Next Big Thing. Own a Company That's Going Big- The Next [favorite billionaire]
  I'm My Own Boss! Own a Company for the Lifestyle- Live My Way
  I Have People For That. - Big Goals
  I Know the System and can Make It Dance.- Why It Works
  
  
  



1. Taking Kiyosaki Sketch and making an Architectural Diagram out of it.
Middle Ground- Map of the Lands between employee and rich person, and how to navigate it.
    What I could have used, being excited from RDPD, was a map of all the places you might go between employee and rich so that I could plan an itinerary. This book will outline the major paths, and the typical deadends.
    Dead ends are places where people get caught up in a particular lifestyle and acquire something that holds them back from being able to continue on the road to wherever they wanted to go.
    Just like moving in real life, it's easiest to keep moving toward your goals if you have a minimalist set of personal stuff. But, if you want to still have access to them, it's not impossible to maintain control without personal ownership.
    For me, my personal things are a cool wardrobe, a laptop, internet access, and decent food. With these things and some small cash flows I can stay happy.





what is a rich person, how do rich people happen, how is rich life different from normal life
   Rich people are people who don't have to work for anyone but themselves.
   Rich people happen when a normal person builds something that supports them, so that they don't need to work in the way others work to maintain a lifestyle.
   Rich people don't need to have lots of money in cash to make this happen, they rarely do. They sometimes need very little money at all.
   Rich life is a lot like normal life, the main difference is that you have to tolerate different sorts of stupid things. 
   Instead of annoying people, who the rich can mostly ignore or fire, the rich have annoying institutions and ways of thinking, which become more aggravating and require more activity on your part as you become more rich.








Dealing with Uncertainty- knowing what you don't know, what you want to know, and what you don't want to know.
  The biggest difference between a lifestyle which can get rich and a dependent one is personal responsibility- your personal decisions matter much more as you grow into wealth.
  As this happens, it is easy to simply expand your dependency into different things. Many 'rich' people, doctors and lawyers and politicans, are as dependent on staying within their own boxes as less rich people. They make more money, but can't spend it except in certain ways without risking their income.
  This, to me, is not true wealth or richness. It's close, and easier in some ways for such people to strike out into real wealth, but the sorts of people who become powerful in such institutions are not the sorts to think outside the box they've worked themselves into.
  The difference is the ability to understand uncertainty, and the areas where uncertainty is holding you back.
  Most people haven't started a company because they don't realize it costs about $100 and an hour or so of work to 'officially' start a company. It just sounds like it's much bigger than that. 
  Quibbling over whether filing the paperwork is starting a company, instead of doing it and seeing where it leads, is a demonstration of a bad way to deal with uncertainty. It's easy to recognize that you didn't think that about a company and be insulted or feel misled, harder to take that recognition and act immediately to see whether it's true.
  It is easy to stay within a box where other people define what you should and should not do, and when you don't know something you just ask and believe the answer and go back to things you know how to do.
  Most worthwhile accomplishments aren't so clear cut, and becoming personally able to do your unique goals certainly isn't. Lots of realizing you haven't the foggiest, asking questions, listening carefully and realizing they haven't the foggiest either but from a different direction, and acting anyway to find out through trial and a pretty certain error.
  But if there is something which you need to know, and there's no way to find out except by risking your hard-earned resources, then you do it.
  What you don't want to know is what it's like to live your whole life inside of a box some other people built for people like you. The only way to learn that is to spend your whole life without any costly errors when you step outside.
  If you do want to know what it's like to go from safety to power, it will cost, and it will cost right now, painfully. That's a good sign you're doing it right.
  To deal well with uncertainty, if you hear about something that looks like it will help you do what you personally want to, try to find out how to do it cheaply or simulate it, and then do that expecting a costly failure.
  I look for chances to fail in new ways. If you don't want to make a mistake when it counts, make as many mistakes as you can when it doesn't, and learn to avoid making the same mistake twice because the surroundings changed a little bit.
  Honesty with yourself and humility are the keystones of being able to achieve your own goals and live your own life. 
  You need to acknowledge that you have failed, expensively, and write it off as a cost of education, and give up whatever it gained you, salvage what you can, and move on.
  Fortunately, you don't need to tell anyone else that this happened. Just tell them what they need to know, and keep your humiliation inside as fuel for avoiding the same mistake later.
  It's pretty easy to brag about being humiliated, and eventually as aggravating as someone bragging about succeeding. Better to guard your tongue and soldier on.




Momentum- building networks capable of making progress without your oversight
  It is not easy to build any organization or network- mostly it's a matter of perspective whether they exist at all, and a matter of time before you can tell whether they're useful for anything.
  It helps some people to draw up pictures and network diagrams as though that's what really exists, without acknowledging that you just made it up according to rules which are probably changing while you draw them.
  But! Such diagrams will gain their own momentum. If you tell people that they are part of an organization, and show them a chart, and pay them, they believe whatever you tell them, which creates stability for the organization. 
  They believe it with their heart and actions, which is better and more stable than believing it with their minds.
  Show someone a chart, give them a title, make them feel like they've received something, and they will act as though the chart and responsibilities of the title matter as they go forward.
  Building such organizations atop people's existing skills and abilities, phrasing your needs in terms of things they think they know how to do, and rewarding them for doing what they know will enable you to build momentum into your organizations.
  It is up to you to be humble enough to tell when you have poorly worded your request, hired someone who thinks their job is different from what you need, and when to change the organization you fabricated from scratch.
  Just don't do it too often or people start to notice that it is all made up. They hate being reminded of that, because they feel like they've made a mistake in believing in it and giving it reality when it was so changeable.


Weirdness- what sort of things go weirdly wrong, how to get out of catch-22s, oddities of being responsible
  Often you run into a problem which appears unsolveable, because so many different moving parts are getting in the way of solving any single bit.
  You can run around trying to play whackamole with such things and never make any progress, never go anywhere new, and always face the same problems in different guises.
  The key to solving these problems is seeing where your perceptions of what is a problem differ from things actually getting in the way of your goals.
  Catch-22s are created when a system doesn't recognize that a situation is a problem, and its agents are capable of only acting within the situation.
  The way out is to realize that you are capable of acting outside the system, which changes you into an agent who is no longer only capable of acting within it.
  Then, after a few costly mistakes, you can find a new way to achieve your goal.


The Buck Stops Over There With That Guy I'm Paying.
  Thinking that as you become more rich you will have the final say in more things doesn't take into account that it takes up a lot of time to be having the final say in things.
  Or that the 'final say' is usually an illusion, and that the situation will continue to arise and become more complicated.
  The goal should be to create organizations where someone else has the final say, and then you can adjust how they decide on what to do. This means that you have control over more without having to micromanage everything.
  This is why people shouldn't strive to be CEOs, or even majority shareholders, but founders of organizations. Then you get to build it from scratch to solve a set of problems you want solved, and the organization runs itself solving that problem, and when you sell shares you make money to go on to the next problem.
  If the organization later becomes bad at solving the problem, just make another one to solve its inadequacies, and the same investors from the last one will likely leap at the chance to pay you money for this organization too.
  The key to doing this is to make sure that you are personally managing as few organizations which are solving problems you want solved as possible, and that you're personally working toward the best thing you want at any given time. 

Problems don't solve themselves, People you Pay to Solve Problems become Problems that Sometimes Solve Themselves.
  As you build organizations responsible for solving problems, managing the people working for you becomes its own problem. Then if you pay another person to manage that person, it's the same problem one level up, with more consequences for a bad decision when everything under a supervisor might fall apart.
  By making organizational documents providing structure and ways of solving both the problem of management of task completion and management of task completers, you can just change the documents and have the consequences ramify through the whole thing.
  It's really easy to do this, and once you have other investors they'll do it for you. This is what the board of directors of a company, and the CEO does.


Responsible v Accountable For 
  You can take personal responsibility for solving the problems, meaning that you want to have them solved and you have failed when they are badly solved, without being accountable for individual parts of the solutions.
  This just means that when whoever is accountable for the problem part fails, you have failed, and when they succeed, they have succeeded. 
  Wanting to be the one to succeed is part of an employee mindset. 
  Wanting to have problems successfully solved is a responsible mindset. 
  Wanting to have problems successfully solved with as little involvement as possible on your part is a wealthy mindset, and will give you more time to expand into more problems that you want solved.
  But wanting to have problem indicators go away versus having problems solved is an irresponsible way of living.
  Most organizations take for granted that their employees aren't motivated enough to solve problems, and must be so swamped with red alerts to be solved which are close to solving the problem that they frantically help with the solution.
  Really, employees generally aren't motivated because the wealthy people who built and own the organization get the value associated with solving the problem, whereas they only get negative input if they don't solve it.
  In order to build organizations of people who are responsibly solving problems and so require less oversight, you can empower your employees into the wealthy track for themselves, and give them a share in the value.
  Any hired employee is accountable for certain responsibilities. This doesn't mean they feel responsible for their completion. This gap destroys much value in this world.


Expectations- others will solve for you, solutions exist for free on the internet or not at all.
  Expecting that a solution already exists and you just have to find it often holds people back. They look for get-rich-quick schemes and packaged solutions like retirement funds to assure their future.
  1. There are many ways to get rich quickly. Most involve breaking the law, or unethical behavior, and few will allow you to keep your riches for long.
  2. There are some ways to get rich quickly which don't involve breaking the law, but they often involve some sort of questionably ethical behavior. (algo trading, network marketing) They are being done pretty often. They are usually taking money, not making money/creating value.
  3. There are a few ways to get rich quickly with don't involve breaking the law or questionably ethical behavior, and if they are easy to find they are being done as often as possible already, and usually within other people's organizations so that the value can be collated, and the price dropped to undercut the competition.
  4. There are ways to get rich quickly which don't involve breaking the law, or questionably ethical behavior, and aren't being done as often as possible already within organizations which can drop the price by not giving the value created to the value creators. They usually involve specialized skills whose owners won't work within the organizations of others and haven't yet been taught to enough people that owners don't recognize what they have.
  These things often exist and are not hard to find, but difficult to do. After all, if they were simple, see above. 
  Difficult doings are made difficult by not having been done many times. If it had been done many times, each part would have been expressed simply and thus made simple, and see above.
  Therefore, the expectation that it is easy and findable to get rich quickly is a poorly thought out idea, taken advantage of by all the categories above, because there is some value in giving people what they think should exist.
  The way to create value quickly ethically and easily is to go to school, get a job, and work for someone else. Who, using steps 1,2, and/or 3, has usually removed the value from the people doing the execution, because they think that's how the world works.
  The way for an individual to personally keep value which has been created quickly and ethically is not easy. I hope to make it more simple.

2. Framework 
A. Financially Precise RDPD

RDPD definitions
  Capital is anything you own which can be sold for money. The value of capital is _what it can be sold for_, although accountants have leeway in assuming the best for this. It is good for your personal statements to value things at what they can be sold for within a week on craigslist- usually less than %60 of what you bought them for. Only pleasant surprises, that way.
  An asset is capital which puts a total of positive amounts of money into your pocket regularly.
  A liability is any capital which removes a total of negative amounts of money from your pocket regularly, including through associated fees like gas for a car you use or insurance on it. 
  Income is the money which flows into your accounts on a monthly basis.
  Expenses are the costs which flow out of your accounts on a monthly basis.
  Active income is income tied to work which you do.
  Passive income is tied to how you have spent your money.
  Active expenses are expenses tied to decisions you make- buying coffee.
  Passive expenses are tied to liabilities.


How the feedback loop works
  Spending your income to acquire assets which give you passive monthly income increases your income on the next month.
  By acquiring assets, even small ones, over time you can pay for your passive expenses without spending active income on them.
  Once you pay for your expenses you can put all of your active income and any additional passive income into building more assets.



Gets a lot harder in practice.
  Your active expenses can always trump your assets if you let them.
  Your active expenses are made possible by your access to your money.
  It is possible, but painful, to remove your own access to your money by putting it into long-term investments.
  That skill is one of the biggest keys to becoming wealthy- delayed gratification, coupled with the ability to pick assets which give passive income and are very liquid within specific timeframes or situations.
  The income from assets is much lower than the passive expenses from your liabilities, and lower than your active expenses. You spend what you have.
  Acquiring assets means putting aside money you would have liked to spend. If you're not used to it, you often pull the money right out of that asset when you 'need' it.
  Wealthy people can't even touch over %200 of their actual net worth- it's tied up in assets like real estate and liabilities like mortgages, loops that are outside of their control but pay them passive income.
  Normal people have often access to %300 of their net worth, in the form of credit cards, available mortgages, car loans, etc.
  Normal people have to buy on credit to upgrade their active income through promotion, which is often tied to appearing as someone of a higher income level, or avoid decreasing their active income through demotion, often tied to appearing as people of a lower income level.
  Normal people don't have time or inclination to buy anything except packaged investments like stocks or retirement funds.
  Stocks and retirement funds often are not assets in the long run, because of inflation, transaction costs, risk, and inability to remove money from a poor investment on a manager's part.
  Thus, even the things that normal people can buy which look like assets are not, because of the low gains vs the high transaction costs and lack of control.
  Sucks to be not-rich people. 

Lies/Uncaring Untruths- unscrupulous salespeople, biased understandings, think that it matters/doesn't matter, uninvolved
  Packaged investments never perform as advertised. They have to spend money on advertising, at the very least, which cuts into profits and is never accounted for.
  Banks will tell you that liabilities are assets without lying- these are assets to the bank, and it's not their job to put themselves in your shoes.
  Stockbrokers will adjust their opinions and recommendations based on new information, and suggest that you change your position, regardless of how the transaction costs reduce your gains.
  Retirement funds are just investments in the stock market even further out of your control with even more inability to withdraw money- try removing any money from your retirement account, even a hundred dollars, and see how much you get. Then apply that % to your overall fund. That's how much you actually have.
  Retirement funds are not inflation-tracking- as the value of a dollar goes down over time (as it has since we left the gold standard), the value of your dollars in your fund will go down. By the time you retire they will probably be worth only a small fraction, and that's before the % you actually get after transaction costs.
  Companies have to pay all sorts of expenses along with having you as an employee, which they would probably like to give to you. None of this active income touches you, it just goes right into expenses and out of your control.
  Brokers, bankers, financiers all have their own goals, which don't have to do with making you any money.

Money is involved- everybody goes crazy around money
  When these things are just numbers many of these actors make correct decisions for everyone involved, to maximize value all around.
  When it is actual dollars being moved, all that goes out the window and people start acting pretty insanely. 
  Everyone forgets wants to avoid accountability for any mistakes, follows corporate rules to avoid responsibility, and generally minimizes value for everyone except themselves in the shortest term.
  It's odd, but reliable. Learn to count on it. Whatever numbers have been worked out will only be suggestions when the chips hit the table.

Complexity- most people have no idea what something complex looks like. Hint- it's not math, or anything sequential.
  Complexity occurs when a simple idea is put into practice.
  Most complexity in this arena has to do with cash flows, accountability, and time frames.
  A complex thing has many hidden moving parts. That's it. For example, to move money from a bank account to another requires all sorts of computer programming, electronics, multiple agreements on the part of banks, and confirmation on both sides. And that one is relatively well worked out.
  Any time a task has to be done, follow all the moving parts you can understand, and if you get the hint you're barely scratching the surface, expect it to go very poorly but be an excellent learning experience.
  The more complex the task, the fewer people have done it before you.
  The fewer who have done it before you, the more profit there is to be had for a creative person who really understands how it works.
  You don't understand complex tasks by accidentally succeeding, you understand them by purposely failing and paying careful attention to failure at each stage.



Good/Bad Info, Signal/noise, how people lose their minds dealing with complexity and how it affects you
  Most people, upon failing at a complex task, avoid everything that reminds them of it even in the slightest.
  They take all the signals they can remember from the failure and try to avoid any of them, without attempting the task again to see which signals actually presaged the failure, and how they did so.
  As a result most people get very superstitious when it comes to money, and become convinced that whatever hasn't completely failed for them yet is working.
  Read some Fooled by Randomness, some Taleb, and play some video games. They encourage you to act out, and the better ones punish you accurately for it in more compressed timeframes.


Common ways for you to deal with this- pick a release valve, stress toy, and go with it when you feel like it.
  Find a cheap hobby which gives you great stress relief and run with it. Must be something you can redo (like rereading books or replaying old video games, meeting up with old freinds, ballroom dancing clubs, martial arts, sports, playing a musical instrument)
  Set it up so that you don't need to pay for it regularly (netflix, gamefly, club membership with an asset tied directly to paying it for you, etc.)
  Go forth and have a lot of time where you can't spend money. Makes it go faster without building active expenses. 

How to approach these complexities without trying to oversimplify them, ignore them, exaggerate them- the point of the book.
  In general, the thing to remember about complexities is that they are not easy to deal with, that whatever you learn, someone else can do for you if you write it down carefully, and that the situation changes all the time so be careful about expecting it not to.
  This sounds like a lot of active work, difficult, and expensive.
  It is. 
  But it is also fun, and is the only way to become safely, repeatably rich. This is wealth with resilience.
  Serial Entrepreneurs can start a new company at any time, in any place. If the zombie apocalypse came, they'd be the ones bartering filtered water and assorted goods from an armored truck within a month, with a support convoy. You can be one too- it requires that you put in this sort of active work, live through the difficulties, recognize that organization is whatever you say it is and can pay people to uphold, and spend the money.
  Your future right now is not safe. It just looks that way because you believe the things your retirement fund managers, and teachers, and politicians tell you. It is not those people's job to make your future safe- it is their job to make sure you don't leave looking for something better, or something you understand.
  No teacher was ever fired for a 100% graduation rate. Nor a fund manager fired for having all their customers return year over year, nor a politician for having all their voters come out again. All of these people get fired all the time for not having 'retention,' causing a selection for people who are convincing.
  If you think that life can be simple and easy and profitable for a normal person, then expect to get most of the way through it and have the rug pulled out from under you when you lose your job to a younger, equally qualified person with more ambition, lose your retirement to inflation, lose your house to expenses, and lose your self-esteem to all of the above.
  Life is hard and complex and expensive. The sooner you lean into it, the faster you'll hire people to take on the difficult and complex and annoying parts, and the sooner it can be simple and easy and profitable. But it will never be as comforting as it is to someone who lets others make decisions for them.


    B. Big, Optimistic Examples

i. Commercial Real Estate

What does it mean to be a real estate investor- 
  It means you have put capital into ownership of real estate for the purpose of converting the capital into an asset. It does not mean you have been successful in this endeavor.
  Which means that you have gone through the complexity of a purchase successfully. Again, does not mean that you have gained an asset.

How complex is RE investing
  Very complex, if you don't have the money to put the complexity in the hands of people who have done it many times. Very simple if you have that sort of money.
  RE involves 
   legal issues regarding transfer of ownership, contracts for rentors, lessors, and any other silly mechanism people can use to give the owner money.
   Escrow (putting money into a place where everyone can trust its existence. Surprisingly important in spending large amounts of money, increasingly important as the amount increases. Anyone can claim a billion dollars, no one can have it in escrow)
   Management,
   Accounting,
   Valuation (what is a piece of property worth? To a bank, what the assessor says it is worth. To a sellor, whatever buyers in reasonable timeframes say it is worth. To someone looking for cash flow, whatever it generates divided by the cost over a reasonable timeframe. And so on.) (The assessor is what matters for tax purposes/mortgage purposes, the sellor/buyer decision for acquisition, the cash flow for asset investors. Finding the gaps matters for RE investors.)
   Safety, to insurers. (you generally need insurance of many kinds on a property before it can be considered an asset. Contracts saying tenants can't sue if they injure themselves on a property should be considered insurance, but are not for tax purposes. Another gap.)
   Attractiveness, to possible renters. (which hilariously has little to do with the contracts you have them sign- once they have decided on a place they are loath to change their minds.)
   Location, to improving the capital value over time. (decided in part by assessors, but mostly by simple closeness to other things going up in value, and so easy to predict.)
  Each part of RE investing has people who are 'experts' and can 'advise' an investor, for a sum. That just means they tell you something. Believing it is for fools, see part on people who get their jobs by convincing. Testing it is impossible- if it is testable the convincers have covered their bases. 

The value of RE
  RE is the chosen mechanism of the rich for keeping their riches safe. 
  Thus tax laws on RE are relatively kind, 
   you have a _time period_ after a sale in which to reinvest and not be taxed (huge, law made by and for the rich.), 
   and it gives passive income in droves with decent prop mgrs, who take a % of the PI as payment (a great deal for the owner! only get paid if they make you money!)
   Depreciation, just let your accountants handle it, but more money for the owner.
   Small transaction costs (relatively. % on stocks is high compared to long-term on RE- can use income to cover possible transaction costs over long timeframes and repay initial investment.)
  RE gives you a relatively high passive income per amount invested, nearly always increases more than inflation in capital value over time, and once set up is hard to get out of (valuable considering above on removing capital from access) 


What other options do I have for building assets
  Stocks- higher ease of sale (bad for reasons above) relatively high transaction, no assurance of cap gains, sometimes dividends but on average lower than RE, no tax bennies from depreciation, no untaxeable on sale, no special laws set up for the purpose of saving.
  Direct Capital- buying gold, etc. Low liquidity than stox but higher than RE (bad for reasons above), no appreciation excepting inflation, Great protection against inflation, expensive insurance (need real guards)(who will guard the guards?), requires active management (many who thought guards of guards were well set up have lost all. Roman examples)  
  Starting Companies- buying RE is starting companies. Other companies have higher pot gains and require much more work to go up in cap or income, and often no one exists to simplify for money due to new problems. More active, more potential upside, should be pursued through and alongside RE.
  


Where do I start

Build passive processes, set up organization to handle risk/money/mgt, get hooked in, have an exit plan, pull the trigger.

First comes data collection. 

Second comes comparisons of investments. 

Third comes setting up the infrastructure to make an investment. RE is very complex- very structured. You have people for that.

a lawyer , 

a property mgr, 

a banker , and 

a tax acct . 

You don't do all these things at the same time. 

fourth- set up buying structure. 

Fifth is have everything ready to go, but don't pull the trigger. It's terribly stressful. Longer you stay here, better your purchase will be, but is expensive to maintain.

Sixth make your purchase, apply your personnel to it, and stay up to date on it w/goal reports.

Seventh check your accounting against reality.

Eighth move toward your exit strategy over time. 



owning and managing assets is a lifestyle, and with more control comes more responsibility.

If you skip steps, you have only yourself to blame if stuff goes wrong, and luck to blame if it goes right. 



Bootstrapping- Using one small thing to get a slightly bigger thing, to get a slightly bigger thing. Fishing example- hand digging in dirt catches worm, worm catches bait fish, catches predator, catches big predator, sell to buy a bunch of worms. Start with what you have, use it to get closer to your goal, keep your end goal in mind, trade up to the next thing you need, never rest, never stop, never spend your spare stuff if you don't absolutely need it.



ii. Starting a Company


What it means to start a company

'winging it'

Effectively Winging it requires Immense Planning, and Failure/Coaching, and It's So Much Fun.

Also Many Different Plans helps, but can be confusing for yourself and others.

Stop telling people about your thing and start asking people serious technical questions to make it, and make it better. 

Because there are a bunch of simultaneous problems, any of which can wipe out your company.

But all of which can be ignored until the very last second if you know they exist ahead of time

Why should you hire people instead of contracting work out, if it's more expensive?

Legitimacy, Continuity, Passive Work for the company

Who should be the first hire- splitting paths. Lifestyle biz, Corp.

Sales, marketing, product development, all the simultaneous problems listed out.

Get working, reading, asking questions, trying stuff out.

Continue as long as you can- always be reading and learning and questioning, always be honest in seeing where you are. 



iii. Commonalities



Accurate Definition of goal- Read a bunch of definitions, read between the lines, write a few, pick one, rewrite it from memory every time you need it, let it move around a bit, know that it'll never be perfect.

Figure out who you need to be to achieve the goal- how to act, who to know, what to have, what to know- bare minimums

Figure out how to get from where you are to one of those minimums, 

If can't figure it out, try harder. Get effective ways of living which solve problems in your future.

Start planning once you get on the right track, how you can use what you're doing to get one min, to get more minimums

Contacts and People in the field are great sources of info- contract first, then increase hours, then hire fulltime if necessary

Expect to spend and spend for your education. 

Start to make decisions on purpose. Collect information, collate it, decide. Make lists and don't do some stuff on them.

When it seems like you're spending too much you are, but there's no way around it.

Group necessary tasks under people who can be relied on to solve them. Keep giving them tasks until they push back. Then renegotiate.

If you can spend it, it's not savings. Spend your money on purpose- be active in spending it, get used to getting it back instead of having it handy.

Organize your records- always get more records, always organize new info into existing knowledge base, always read b/w lines

Get everything together for a big day- know where you are at all times, as well as you can

never do anything ahead of time if it costs money, but always close the deal.

Make lists of things you can't do yet but want to eventually, and research them, talk to people about them, spend a little money on them, lower the barriers to entry and make it less intimidating or it'll only happen too late. 

Knowledge Essentials for All Bizpeople- Project Management, Biases/Heuristics, Managerial Accounting.





    C. Addition of Mgt/Ops framework
What's a Business plan- a way you think will work of running a company

What they're good for- getting a loan from a bank, getting money from an investor

When are they good for that- after you made it, then actually tried to use it for a while in your company, then changed it all, usually a couple of times.

Project Management tools Everyone needs- Gantt charting, Critical Path analysis, excel spreadsheets.

Biases/Heuristics everyone needs- hindsight, overconfidence, anchoring. All of them.

Managerial Accounting- basics. Bottom line, income v profit, margins, asset/liability defs, tracking change over time (everything changes, all the time.), accounting resolution.

Ignorance or Paranoia. Either you don't know enough to know what could go wrong, or you're too scared to act. Former is why people lose money through gullibility, latter is why accountants and lawyers rarely start companies.

Be ready to fail, and fail big. 

Just don't break the law in any way you can avoid- if you didn't go to prison or die, it went pretty well, all things considered. 

Listen when people tell you something sounds illegal. 

But it's not illegal to have initiative and do different things from everyone else.



   D. Final Framework Parts



Biz plan 

Crit Path

Gantt Chart

on a spreadsheet.

Hindsight all advice, 

know you're undercosting, 

don't let people anchor you, 

continue learning.

Try making income statement and balance sheet. 

Hire an accountant to do it.

What's your bottom line.

What're your margins

What are your assets

What are your liabilities

What are your trends

What's the smallest change you can see, over the smallest time period. for each asset/liability. How often do you step back and look at trends.

Embrace your ignorance and Pretending to be normal while paranoid. Looks like being gnomic and a cheap flipflopper. Go meet some self-made rich people- they act like that.

Aim to have stories to tell at the end of this mess. Go big or go home. Don't let anyone stand in your way- go around them.

Don't break the law, lie, cheat, or steal.

If you didn't go to prison or die, it went pretty well, all things considered. 

Do something different- actually take all of the advice even the conflicting stuff. 

Ignore the above when your gut tells you to. 

Get a better gut.



E. Where to Start

All these parts on a budget

Sign up for Mint.com, and we both know those assets aren't worth that much and you're not putting on all of your accounts, it's not like you're only hurting yourself, you're off to a great start.

Sign up for treasurydirect.com, yes it requires you to print a piece of paper and take it to a bank for a real seal, welcome to the adult world.

Sell some Old Stuff

Or just buy some new stuff and feel like you're making progress. If you want to fail.

Anyway, sell some old stuff for way less than it's worth, to get rid of it as fast as possible, because otherwise you're not selling it you're posting it on the pictures on craigslist to make yourself feel like you're making progress.

Use the money to buy treasury bills

Use the space to set up a cheap desk you find at a garage sale, yes i know it's not really the best place for it, deal with it for now.

Call it a home office. Ta Da.

Actually do work from it in your 'sell my old shit and buy assets' company- the work is to use your existing laptop/cellphone (which can now be considered home office supplies) to

Incorporate this company for 100 bucks from [x] website

Get ready to spend 300 bucks to talk to an accountant to figure out how to use your company as a tax deduction. That means looking at your mint.com account and being all sad at how little money you really have, and realizing you gotta make sure that number is right.

Get free business cards printed from [x] site for your new company. Give yourself a reasonable title because you're not a child. 

Get another set of business cards with a cool title on them, because you can, and so you can have a little personality dammit.

Look at the business plans in the appendix, 

Decide they aren't ambitious enough,

Go spend a bunch of money your company doesn't have (you just made it like three days ago!) on trying something way out of your reach

Declare bankruptcy for the company

Deal with that huge mess for a while until you get bored. Should take about 10 seconds. Then ignore it as much as possible.

Go through steps thru look at biz plans again and have a little humility this time, after having lost some money to hubris, the great leveller.

Use this company to follow one of the business plans in the appendices, because you are just that uncreative.

Realize this whole mess is pretty disorganized and you don't know how much you're _really_ spending, or making.

Actually spend that 300 bucks to talk to the accountant, now that you have cool business cards and are an entrepreneur.

Learn to hate taxes even more, but also spend less on them than your friends.

Save way more money than you thought you would through this, probably way more than the 300 bucks.

Don't give me any of the money, tell no one you read this book, take all the credit, laugh at what a sucker i am.

Continue to be a jerk with a company whose business plan i wrote so that I can come and take it from you for pennies on the dollar when your employees unionize because you're a bad boss, because i taught you everything you know, but not everything I know!


...?

profit?

Congratulate yourself on having a company. Put it in your will and pretend like it's worth something. Just like everyone else.

Have some idea of how this whole thing works. Go Forth and Screw Up Expensively, but More Cheaply than College, and Actually Going Somewhere if you Learn.

3. Modular Parts

Commonly used business solutions- best practices

    A. Savings Instruments
I. Key Attributes- 
  liquidity, 
  appreciation/cap gains, 
  Inflation/Deflation, 
  security, 
  Transaction Costs in/out
II. Examples
Capital- Physical Stuff you have that you can sell for cash.
Cash- Currency convertible into stuff/services
Bank Accounts- convertible into currency at locations
Stocks w/o dividends
RE 
Holdings

    B. Costs for Infrastructure
Think about- multipurpose, retainers, cost/value of relationship, when to upgrade, getting the upgrade's value without paying idiot tax.

Acquisition Tech Trees! - spec out in yED. Each will have story of most common failure points.
Contacts become Acquaintances become Friends become Trusted Advisors becomes a Team
Definition becomes passing knowledge becomes oversimplification becomes knowledge becomes certainty becomes failure becomes wisdom
Need more money becomes need more resources becomes need more time becomes need more people i can trust becomes need more nimbleness becomes need more people worth talking to.
Great idea becomes childish attempt becomes experimentation becomes annoyance becomes decent start, journeyman project, masterwork.
try becomes suffer through becomes schedule becomes habit becomes effortless

Go Big so that a 2nd or 3rd step is still worth talking about, stories help with all of these. 
Audacity pulls the world with you.
If you're not excited enough about your goal to talk about it why would anyone else be excited enough to help you with it. 
    C. Investment Instruments
        i. Infrastructure Reqs
Contacts, Knowledge, Costs, Failures, Effort
        ii. Expected gains
Passive Income, Active Income, Cashflow Issues, ROI, IRR, CAP, Possible Upside @ any given time, possible downside, # of chances to up/down, import for time frame to check up on.

Self-running Businesses
Stocks
BondsMutual Funds
Income Generating RE
Notes (IOUs)
Royalties from IP
Anything that has value, produces income, or appreciates and has a ready market.

Appendix 1. Tools- 
On Website, Open Sourced with Version Control.
Upfront Cost, Ongoing Cost, Situations of Value, Difficulty of Learning to use, 

A. Financial Literacy and Auditing
Mint.com
ebanking
Excel Templates
Accountants
MBAs/Consultants
Property Managers

B. Legal
Mortgages
Options
Renting
Loans
Types of Company
Independent Contractor Docs
Employment Docs
Incorporation Docs


C. Projects and Goals Tech Trees/Maps
I. Starting a Company
a. Sample Company Plans- High Upside Potential- Software Co.
Lifestyle is terrible, don't get paid, Hard to find coworkers, tons of responsibility, live like in the movies, probably fail.
b.Lifestyle- Best Gaming Computer- Computer Construction, Sales/nice house- Craigslist Resale, Make cool things/ people happy - Custom Toys, Actually Use your Degree + Spare Time- Tutoring, 
If you want something, make a company around buying and selling the low-end version, and higher end stuff starts sticking to you.

II. Investing in Real Estate
Sample Real Estate - home conversion, duplex, 4-unit, 10+ unit apt complexes

D. Complicated Bits
Structuring Companies a la Taleb, 
Raising Capital/Debt,      
On Lying to Investors, Employees, Yourself, Your Spouse, and other common lying directions.
How to build Self-Fulfilling Prophecies
Breaking the Law
General Ethics

D. Mathy Bits
Math of RDPD
Gaps in Math of RDPD
Filling in Gaps with Framework
How to Make new Modules for Framework